# Search HTML element #

## By ID ##

`document.getElementById` - retrieves a single element that matches the specified ID.
This method is efficient because IDs are unique.

````javascript
const element = document.getElementById('myElement');
````

## By Class Name ## 

`document.getElementsByClassName('className')` - returns an HTML Collection (live) of all elements
with the given class name.

````javascript
const elements = document.getElementsByClassName('myClass');
````

## By Tag Name ##

`document.getElementsByTagName('tagName') - returns an HTMLCollection (live) of all elements with the specified tag name.`

````javascript
const elements = document.getElementsByTagName('p');
````

## By CSS Selectors ##

`document.querySelector('cssSelector')` - returns the first element that matches the specified CSS selector.

`document.querySelectorAll('cssSelector')` - returns a NodeList(static) of all elements that match the specified CSS
selector.

````javascript
const element = document.querySelector('#myElement .myClass');
const elements = document.querySelectorAll('div p');
````

## By Name ##

`document.getElementsByName('name')` - returns a NodeList of all elements with the specified name attribute.

````javascript
const elements = document.getElementsByName('myInput');
````

## Search within an element ##

You can use the same methods as above but called on an element, for example:

````javascript
const parentElement = document.getElementById('parent');
const childElements = parentElement.getElementsByClassName('child');
````

## Searching up the DOM Tree ##

`element.closest('cssSelector')` - searches up the DOM tree starting from the element itself until a match is found.

````javascript
const element = document.querySelector('.myElement');
const closestParent = element.closest('.parent');
````

## Return ##

* **HTMLCollections** - live HTMLCollections, which update automatically when the DOM changes.
* **Static NodeList** - static NodeList, which does not update.

## Universal method ##

**querySelector** and **querySelectorAll** are versatile due to their ability to use any CSS selector.

## Performance ##

**getElementById** is generally the fastest for finding a single element by ID

## Error Handling ##

* if no element is found, **getElementById** and **querySelector** return null.
* if no elements is found, **getElementsByClassName**, **getElementsByTagName**, **getElementsByName**,
  **querySelectorAll** return empty collections.